README.md, before:

# Nepal Map

The Nepal instance of [Wazimap](https://github.com/Code4SA/wazimap), a Django application for exploring census and other similar data.

# Local development

1. clone the repo
2. ``cd nepalmap``
2. ``mkvirtualenv nepalmap``
3. ``workon nepalmap``
4. ``pip install -r requirements.txt``

You might need to install certain dependencies on Ubuntu before you can install dependencies via `pip` for the app.

- `sudo apt install -y libgdal-dev postgresql-server-dev-9.5`
- `export C_INCLUDE_PATH=/usr/include/gdal`
- `export CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH=/usr/include/gdal`

You will need a Postgres database:

```
psql -U postgres
create user wazimap_np with password 'wazimap_np';
create database wazimap_np;
grant all privileges on database wazimap_np to wazimap_np;
```

Import the sql files needed for SimpleTable entries:
```
cat sql/simpletables/*.sql | psql -U wazimap_np -W wazimap_np
```

Run migrations to keep Django happy:
```
python manage.py migrate
```

Import data for all the tables:

```
cat sql/*.sql | psql -U wazimap_np -W wazimap_np
```

Start the server:
```
python manage.py runserver
```

# Docker based setup

Using this setup, one can run the project inside docker containers. This make the environments lightweight, reproducible and portable.

## Requirements

Only the following things are required on your host machine. Nothing else needs to be installed.

- GNU Make ( Version 4.0 and up )
- Docker Engine ( Version 17.06 and hopefully upwards )
- Docker Compose ( Version 1.14 and hopefully upwards )


## Development environment

All commands are provided as make targets via Makefile. One can use docker and docker-compose directly for running the services, but some helpers are provided for consistency.

An application environment context (dev, staging) has to be set along with any of the `make ...` commands. You can either export this in your shell environment, or pass it as an argument to the make target.

```
# Get all the Makefile documentation
APP_ENV=dev make help
```

## Staging environment

This is very much similar to running the dev environment. Caddy is used instead of Nginx, because of it's automatic HTTPS certs and other easier-to-configure things. Some commands are added, else much of them are the same as above, expect for the `APP_ENV` context set to `staging`.

NOTE: Check the comments in `compose.staging.yml` before running in staging.

# License

NepalMap code is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Update Readme in preparation for production

README.md, after:

# Nepal Map

The Nepal instance of [Wazimap](https://github.com/Code4SA/wazimap), a Django application for exploring census and other similar data.

# Local development

1. clone the repo
2. ``cd nepalmap``
2. ``mkvirtualenv nepalmap``
3. ``workon nepalmap``
4. ``pip install -r requirements.txt``

You might need to install certain dependencies on Ubuntu before you can install dependencies via `pip` for the app.

- `sudo apt install -y libgdal-dev postgresql-server-dev-9.5`
- `export C_INCLUDE_PATH=/usr/include/gdal`
- `export CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH=/usr/include/gdal`

You will need a Postgres database:

```
psql -U postgres
create user wazimap_np with password 'wazimap_np';
create database wazimap_np;
grant all privileges on database wazimap_np to wazimap_np;
```

Import the sql files needed for SimpleTable entries:
```
cat sql/simpletables/*.sql | psql -U wazimap_np -W wazimap_np
```

Run migrations to keep Django happy:
```
python manage.py migrate
```

Import data for all the tables:

```
cat sql/*.sql | psql -U wazimap_np -W wazimap_np
```

Start the server:
```
python manage.py runserver
```

# Docker based setup

Using this setup, one can run the project inside docker containers. This make the environments lightweight, reproducible and portable.

## Requirements

Only the following things are required on your host machine. Nothing else needs to be installed.

- GNU Make ( Version 4.0 and up )
- Docker Engine ( Version 17.06 and hopefully upwards )
- Docker Compose ( Version 1.14 and hopefully upwards )


## Development environment

All commands are provided as make targets via Makefile. One can use docker and docker-compose directly for running the services, but some helpers are provided for consistency.

An application environment context (dev, staging, prod) has to be set along with any of the `make ...` commands. You can either export this in your shell environment, or pass it as an argument to the make target.

```
# Get all the Makefile documentation
APP_ENV=dev make help
```

## Staging and Production environment

This is very much similar to running the dev environment. Caddy is used instead of Nginx, because of it's automatic HTTPS certs and other easier-to-configure things. Some commands are added, else much of them are the same as above, expect for the `APP_ENV` context set to correct environment.

```
# Run in staging
APP_ENV=staging make ...

# Run in production
APP_ENV=prod make ...
```


NOTE: Check the comments in `compose.<env>.yml` before running them.

# License

NepalMap code is licensed under the MIT License.
